The Bruqai are aberrations from the Far Realm that came to Acora 500 years ago in an alien invasion that shattered Sunder Space's [[Sunder Space/Crystal Sphere|Crystal Sphere]] and ended the Age of Shelter. They're lead by [[Architects]], The Bruqai responsible for the invasion, leading their armies in an invasion of [[Acora/Acora|Acora]]. These Architects are ancient and powerful beings competing with one another to prove their own greatness. They each specialize in their own Paradigm, the fundamental model that they believe is the most powerful and essential aspect of building a civilization. They have been studying the disciplines of these Paradigms for thousands of years and are experts in them. They've come to Acora to prove these Paradigms true by choosing a group of people to be their chosen and bestowing them with advanced knowledge from these paradigms that they will use to advance their society. Only knowledge is allowed to be given, not equipment. [[Chosen]] must have enough of a solid basis to be able to apply that knowledge themselves. The society to achieve total dominance over the planet and/or be the last one standing is considered the winner. If after 1000 year there's no clear winner yet and unlikely to be one in the next 100 years an apocalyptic level event is used as a test of strength. No technology can be given during this event until the society has completely recovered. Every 250 years a new test is given until a winner finally appears.
### Acorans' Opinions of the Bruqai
All governments in Acora are aware of the Bruqai and do their bidding in order to continue receiving boons.

### Others from the Far Realm
Some Bruqai come from the Far Realm to study Acora. On multiple occasions, some of them have done their PhD theses on various aspects of the development of Acoran culture.





Generals are the major bosses. In a fight their 1 lair action is related to their ability they drain. They can only successfully do it once but they can attempt to do it 3 times. They attempt to drain a person of their ability it takes 3 saves to successfully do. The first requires save related to the ability, on a fail their ability score go to 10 and they have disadvantage on all attacks, checks and saves using the ability for a minute. On a second failed save, the ability goes down to 5 and this happens for an hour. On a third failed save it goes down to 1. This is permanent though can be removed with Wish or Divine Intervention. This is a eldritch level effect so is incredibly powerful. Greater restoration can cure it, but the person will be brought back with 2 levels of exhaustion. Each level of exhaustion can be reduced normally either with a long rest, greater restoration or potion of vitality.