The Dawnforge works similarly. It is the essence of creation that permeates the majority of the universe. On many planets, it also permeates every living being. [[Acora]] is one of those planets. Every person radiates with the energy of the forge, though this radiation is natural and most aren't aware of it or able to do anything with it. Through various means, the people of [[Acora]] are able to manipulate this magical energy of their own and/or the wider energy from the various sources of the Dawnforge to cast magic.
## Druids & Rangers
For druids and rangers, the natural dawnforge energy which permeates all life is what they're intune with. Sufficient time spent among them and a deep connection with this natural energy allows them to manipulate it and eventually their own energy.
## Clerics
Since all people have these natural magic fields, they have the potential to wield them. While most can't do this naturally, certain particularly strong emotions such as devotion and reverence can allow this energy to be subconsciously channelled. Divine beings are pure manifestations of these emotions. Worship channels to concentrated energies of followers into their avatars which grants them their power. This makes gods pure manifestations of the Dawnforge reliant on their followers continued worship to remain powerful. Unconcentrated energy such as that of [[Acora]] without a single avatar to focus this magic too is diffused into the planet, though it can be tapped into by clerics in order to access their power. Divine intervention works through some of this energy being channelled directly towards you due to your deeds that have allowed you to advance to level 10. The chance of divine intervention succeeding is the chance that enough additional magical energy is being channelled towards you in worship, gratitude or reverence at the moment you cast it. By level 20, you have enough reverence as a major hero for some portion of the Dawnforge energy to always be channelled directly into you, allowing you to tap it at will. 
## Paladins
For paladins, their magic comes from great internal devotion to their oath. In order to uphold their Oath, they must exhibit extraordinary discipline, training and mental focus which allows them to attune with all aspects of themselves including their connection to their natural Dawnforge energy. This allows them to have no reliance on external sources of magic so even in magical deadzones, they face no impediments to their magic like other casters do. However, the amount of energy produced by one being is limited. This is why paladins are unable to cast spells higher than 5th level. 
## Sorcerers
Sorcerers have a natural attunement to the Dawnforge. They're born with an awareness of it's presence and an ability to manipulate it. All Acorans have a region of their brain used to sense the Dawnforge and wield it. This is vestigial and unused in the vast majority of people, but can be trained and grown in any caster. Sorcerers are born with this gland being enlarged and active which gives them an innate sense for the Dawnforge.
## Wizards
Wizards are able to manipulate it through careful long term study. This study is incredibly intensive and requires a high intelligence to perform. Natural connections through emotion are easier to forge which is why other casters such as druids and rangers don't need the same level of intelligence. But their connections require serious devotion that not everyone is capable of. In order to approach the issue from an objective angle, one must fully understand exactly how the complex nature of the Dawnforge works. They must understand how the personal energy interacts with the greater one to produce magical effects. They must know how they effects can be manifested and controlled. They must know exactly how these effects are produced. It's all very complex and draining. That's why most that can do it stop at simple cantrips that are easy enough to learn. After consistently using it for a year they can be cast at will though sufficient dormancy will require them to relearn the cantrip. Save for prodigies, children don't have a sufficient grasp of the Dawnforge to do magic so one who trains will typically be able to master their first cantrip when they're 19 - 20.

A deeper understanding of the Dawnforge is required to cast multiple cantrips or levelled spells. This training required 5 2-semester years in university to master at which point they're mechanically a level 1 wizard. The first year is mostly theoretical work to set the basis for future years. Each year subsequently is for increasing their understanding of spell casting along with their memorization of spells and magical stamina in order to be able to cast multiple cantrips at will however many times they want. They must also learn how to cast 2 spells at least once a day and how they can recover their energy after a 1 hour break to cast an additional spell. They must also learn the 6 spells they choose in order to graduate. Wizard school is gruelling and only half the class make it through. This is after the already gruelling admissions process which only admits 25% of applicants. To advance to even higher levels, most choose to do additional schooling. A 2 year masters advances someone to 2nd level and a 4 year ArD (Doctor of the Arcane) advances someone to 4th level. Advancement beyond that is rare and exclusive to adventurers and soldiers.
## Martials
Also have frequent strong emotions which causes the growth of the node, but since there's no conscious reflection associated with this growth, there's no ability to control the Dawnforge, but just be a vessel of it which is impacted by will.