The forge node is a brain structure connected to the amygdala that controls the natural Dawnforge radiation every person has along with the wider connection to the Dawnforge some are able to control. Currently in most people, the forge node is small and barely functional, only able to generate a small energy field around the individual with no ability to manipulate this field. The size of the node directly corresponds with the ability to interact with an manipulate dawnforge energy. Small nodes can serve as an unconscious vessel to the node with the will being able to impact it without direct manipulation. This is how martials can preform superhuman acts. Slightly larger nodes are able to manipulate the forge without a true conscious understanding of how it works. This allows for the instinctual magic that was common in prehistoric Acorans. Large nodes are able to consciously understand the dawnforge which gives the ability to study it and control it on a deeper level that prevents unconscious casting based on emotion.

Pre-historic Acorans were all magic users just like many of the wild beasts of [[Acora]]. This allowed them to defend themselves against the many threats of the world as well as hunt more effectively against prey that was far more powerful than they were. This magic was not controlled consciously however. It was controlled through emotion. Raw emotion from the amygdala produced hormones that were routed to the forge node resulting in a manifestation of these emotions that helped protect the person. Fear resulted in thickened skin, hunger and desperation caused fire to shoot from the hands. This helped protect pre-historic Acorans. Though civilizations began to develop and these strong emotions were rarely caused by life and death situations any longer, this magic became a liability. People getting into arguments would unconsciously throw fireballs at the ones who'd drawn their ire, frustration during crop planting resulted in entire fields being set ablaze. Eventually those with these powers were shunned from society or even killed. This resulted in the FN2 gene that causes these inactive forge nodes to become much more common until it was fixed in all Acorans.

The node itself is still there though and still responds to surges in emotion which is how gods are able to get their powers and why clerics can tap into their concentrated pool of Dawnforge energy from individuals. This emotion can result in the growth of the forge node to a size where magic control becomes possible, though this is only with consistently strong emotions. These emotions cause the release of dawnpeptin (DWP), a hormone that feeds into forge node to stimulate its growth. This hormone is low potency so it requires a high concentration of the hormone to start working. Growth is slow so these high concentrations need to be maintained over sustained periods of time to cause substantial growth. High concentration of DWP on receptors of forge node neurons and glial cells triggers a response to intracellular pathways that leads to neuronal branching, increased blood flow and synaptic plasticity resulting in the gradual growth of the node. 

As a result the strong emotions triggered by different practices such as a paladin's oath, a cleric's faith or a druid's deep connection with nature results in the continued activation receptors and growth of the node to the extent where they can have a conscious connection to the Dawnforge. Disuse of magic or these strong emotions will stop growth in the node and eventually lead to atrophy especially with age.