1,000 years ago, the crystal sphere surrounding Everspace was broken, allowing the army of aberrations from far reaching planets in the depths of the universe to invade [[Acora]]. Humanoids were still primitive at the time with few large technological or magical advancements. They only had an understanding of the most basic cantrips, hadn't mastered animal or crop breeding in agriculture and lived in simple villages with no concept of countries, politics, or war.
 
The first day of the sundering, the skies turned black as the thousands of ships swarming the planet blacked out the sun. The creatures that teleported down from the planet were varied. From black, wriggling masses no larger than a dog to towering, behemoths with midnight scales as tough as iron. All of these creatures were intelligent and all of them violent. They called themselves [[The Bruqai]]. Different creatures performed different roles: some enslaved the Acorans, others raided the land for it's bounties, while some were content just wreaking as much havoc as they could.
 
All [[the Bruqai]] did have one thing in common however, they needed to feed; specifically, on the mental faculties humanoids possessed such as their intelligence, knowledge, memories, emotions or personalities. Those who had been fed on were shells of their former selves. These faculties could be regained, but they were never truly themselves again. This is why [[the Bruqai]] conquered planets; they need to feed. This isn't merely an inconvenient obligation for them however, it's pleasure and a sport. They take great pride in the hunt and have no concern for those they hurt or desire to change their ways.
 
[[The Bruqai]]'s requirement for advanced mental abilities means that they have an investment in improving the intelligence of Acorans. Over their 1000 years of occupation, [[the Bruqai]] have introduced many new advancements to Acoran society. They improved their understanding of the arcane and gave them more advanced technologies such plows, bows, and carriages. They also introduced the concept of trade and politics. These great leaps in power in such a short period allowed for large towns and villages to be created. The major powers of [[Acora]] are the towns where some of the largest advancements were bestowed. These towns are typically centred around this discoveries with Wolfgarde being the home of advanced battle tactics and Crystalshore being the first place to cast level one spells and has been a pioneer in the magicks since then.
 
[[The Bruqai]] only give what they believe they can control. While they have knowledge of starships they wouldn't give Acorans any knowledge of how to build them for fear that they will finally be able to fight back. This is why they have not given them anything higher than 5th level spells. Any advancements that they deem to be dangerous are quickly squashed.
      

Before the Sundering, there were no gods. It was only after centuries of occupation where the people placed their hopes in some powerful heroes where those individuals raised to godhood.  
i.e. level 20 heroes became powerful enough where people worshipped them. Continued worship leads to godhood.
       
As a result of the sundering, even millennia later, any form of aberration or those who draw their power from them are ostracized and killed. Being an aberrant mind sorcerer is a crime in all area of [[Acora]] with the more progressive regions working with clerics to rid the individual of the alien influence. Smaller towns and ones that follow tradition more closely will kill anyone suspected of being one on sight.
 
Warlocks that seek their power from the Great Old One or any other form of aberration are considered the worst form of criminal everywhere on [[Acora]] and are treated as the scum of the world. Even in the most progressive places, the punishment for such a crime is life in prison with even seasoned murderers looking down on those who would commit such an atrocity. Though in the majority of [[Acora]], the punishment in death. While there is more sympathy in many circles for the plight of Aberrant Mind sorcerers since they don't have a choice in the matter, no one pities warlocks that form pacts with aberrations. The most sympathetic of people may be more lenient if they agree that they didn't have a choice in the matter, but for those who willingly swore allegiance to an aberration, only the most evil beings of [[Acora]] would sympathize with them.