How the Bruqai operate in Acora differs depending on the Architect in charge of the operation. Some are more hands on while others prefer to take a backseat role. There are some commonalities shared among all architects.
## Universal Intervention
All Architects have a direct relationship with the leaders of their Chosen. The leaders always know who the Bruqai are, the gifts of knowledge they've bestowed upon their people, and their expectations of loyalty and obedience. They regularly have their minds probed to determine their allegiances. If they've been deceiving the Bruqai they'll be removed. Sometimes this happens very directly with the leader being murdered. Other times it will happen discreetly where the traitor will be forced to step down then disappear.

All Bruqai have at least one of their Hands inside the government watching from inside and insuring there's no dissent. Many of these undercover operatives are also outside too among civilians. They monitor the opinions of the people, try to sway any negative opinions of the Bruqai and if there's any whiff of rebellion those people are disappeared and never seen again. It's always made to look natural. Often times Bruqai that can feed on mental faculties leading to insanity are deployed. This is a slow and gradual process to discredit the person and when they're finally gone it's assumed they just finally ended it or got lost somewhere. Some disappearances are done religiously to make sure that people know that certain ideas aren't tolerated by the gods and will be punished to save the rest from judgment.

They all interfere in any form of movement that tries and make another Paradigm more dominant in country. They intentionally discredit it by letting it grow to a certain point so people get their eyes on it, but most of the population isn't completely convinced yet. They then intentionally sabotage the movement and hold it up as evidence of an inherent failure in the system that prevents it from being viable. Knowledge about other Paradigms may be intentionally poisoned or considered inferior to prevent the people shifting to that worldview. The greatest form of embarrassment for an [[Architects|Architect]] is having their paradigm discredited by having the people cease believing in it so they'll do everything in their power to prevent this. This includes sometimes giving their people bestowments from other Paradigms that are intentionally flawed and designed to harm anyone that comes into contact with it to ensure other don't support it.

Every fleet also killed or forced [[Gods of Acora|gods]] into their service using [[The Godthorn]]. These gods are useful in helping to keep the people of Acora loyal to their Paradigm. [[The Bruqai]] have also gained control over the churches. Those that killed gods have very direct control as they've been impersonating them. Those with live gods coerced them into doing their bidding. They also place infiltrators into the church to spread ideals that help them like hard work is what the gods want the most or the good of the country always comes above the good of the individual. 

All Bruqai actively rewrite any history that represents other Paradigms in a positive light. Books are burned, historians disappeared and cultural monuments to these ideas are destroyed. This is especially true when the Chosen had previously been part of another Paradigm.

### Tentative
Some Bruqai can alter dreams of those they come into contact with. Those becoming disillusioned with their Paradigm have these dreams implanted in them. They depict the Paradigm in a positive light. If they believe in a different Paradigm then horrible nightmares are inflicted on them.

In many countries, propaganda is common. They spread the message of the Paradigm to make sure the people continue to believe in it.

Families that are believed to "poison the well" of the [[Chosen]] in terms of the offspring they produce have their ability to reproduce taken away. This helps keep the bloodline pure of any that might taint it with certain ideals or weak genetics.