Because of this competition, one Bruqai faction would never give technology to another group. Interference with another group is strictly forbidden for any Architect or member of their faction. Direct interference from an Architect is punishable by death and thus removal from the competition. The same is true if interference from one of their Hands is proven to have been a direct order from their Paragon. Paragons almost never give orders to avoid this issue, most of them work through their Primarchs, seconds in command that spend most of their lives with their Paragon. They spend so much time together they end up thinking almost exactly alike which allows the Primarch to act as a conduit of the Paragon's will. Paragons consider themselves above the drab life of a commander and would prefer to dedicate themselves to their studies. Primarchs are the primary leaders of a Paragon's fleet.

Interference is a serious offence despite how common it is. One cannot lie to a Bruqai because their psionic abilities let them see into the thoughts and memories of a person. So whenever interference is suspected their mind is probed. If they either committed interference or gave an order to do so they will be charged and killed. This continues until the top official that gave the order is found. Any Paragon that cares for their Primarch ensures that they don't directly give any interference orders. Primarchs typically have their own seconds called a Tongue. Primarchs typically have multiple Tongues each are raised from childhood to think the same as the Primarch. A Primarch at any given time will be stewarding 6 children with 3 expected to take a place as Tongue one day making the process incredibly competitive. 

Tongues command their own Arms of the fleet that serve their own purpose. They must give direct orders. The Primarch is ultimately responsible from the entire fleet and sets the tone for it. This means the general goal and direction of the Fleet. The Tongues have been trained since childhoods to think like their commander so they must interpret these general directions into what's truly intended and give the order. Discretion is always called for when breaking rules, but this doesn't always prevent detection. As a result if a tongue gives a direct order to so something, they're expected to take the fall for it and not the Primarch or Paragon. This means that the role of a Tongue can often be a short one depending on how they lead their Arm. Playing it too safe and never breaking any rules can have a Tongue replaced as well. This is why Tongues are constantly being raised. 

Some Tongues may have their own unofficial speakers that do the dirty work for them and protect their positions. This is technically allowed, but the limited amount of time to raise these speakers makes them less effective in executing the will of the Tongue and by extension the Primarch so it's discouraged.