Paragons are the grand ruler of the fleet under which the entire fleet serves. They're the experts in their Paradigm with primary control of broader interactions with humans such as picking the Chosen, granting the bestowments and exiling groups that fall into the hands or other Paragons. They also provide the grand vision and knowledge that the fleet is fighting for. Paragons don't want to burden themselves with what they consider the trivial affair of commanding the fleet so they leave that duty to their right arm, the Primarchs.

Primarchs serve under the Paragon. They are incredibly close to the Paragon often spending centuries or even millennia serving together as comrades, friends or rarely as lovers. Their closeness allows them to think very similarly to one another allowing the Primarch to exercise the Paragon's will in matters of the Fleet without burdening them with decision making or implicating them if consequences were to arise from their illegal interference. They command the entire Fleet and provide the general goal and direction. They also organize larger scale activities of the Arms of the Fleet.

Tongues are the three Bruqai that serve under the Paragon. They act as a commander for each of the arms of the Fleet. These arms change in specifics between fleets but the general idea of the three Arms are as follows:
- Security: They monitor those inside the fleet along with the Paragon's for any potential threats. This may be espionage or interference from other fleets. It may also be dissidence or rebellion among the Chosen. They may also be responsible for espionage or sabotage of other Fleets.
- Public Relations: Oversees the teaching of the bestowments to the Chosen. Manages the bestowments and monitors the Chosen to make sure they're being properly used and aren't being shared. Also is responsible for most interference that directly impacts the Chosen of other Architects.
- Extraction: Extracting resources from Acora is strictly forbidden because it provides an unfair advantage to several groups and also a disadvantage to several others. Resources for maintaining their ships and getting the food they need must be gotten from another Crystal Sphere. Resource extraction is responsible for gathering this. Several types of Bruqai feed of of mental energies, it's expected of them to feed on synthetic supplements or feed on living beings in a different sphere. Resource extraction is also the group responsible for gathering Acorans to feed on. They're never taken from their Chosen and as a result counts as interference.