Archonate of [[Turul]] - Capital Crystalshore - First to be given magic and has been the hub for magical advancements since then. The first magic they learned was evocation spells that brought all that opposed them to their knees. The Grand Archon is the ruler of [[Turul]] and is considered the most powerful mage of the land. He's appointed by the council. The current grand archon of [[Turul]] is Itzam. They require the fish from [[Waymarch]] and the crops from [[Vitos]] because of the massive focus the Archonate has on magic. Most of their arable land is dedicated to the cultivation of various magic items and the items that can't be cultivated are highly sought after with some even pillaging to get it. This means [[Turul]] can't feed itself without it's dominions. The trade of magic components is one of [[Turul]]'s largest economies. Mastering of channelling magic through a spell focus is advanced magic that most Turulians aren't capable of. Scammers often sell fake magic components. The most common is holy water since it's not possible to verify it's authenticity until you cast a spell and it doesn't work. Detect evil and good would work.

Kingdom of [[Calythra]] - Capital Stonespire - Given the first defensive equipment such castles, moats and more advanced infrastructure. Has fended off both [[Grudor]] and [[Turul]] because of it. Considers itself to be the only truly free nation of [[Acora]]. The only other nation not under the control of [[Grudor]] or [[Turul]] is [[Deslea]] which is under the protection of [[Calythra]]. It aids any region that seeks to escape the grasp of the Arconate or Empire such as Freepier in [[Waymarch]].
 
[[Deslea|Deslean Union]] - Capital Frostfall - A mostly frozen wasteland with little of value to either [[Grudor]] or [[Turul]]. Has managed to maintain its sovereignty due to it's distance from either nation and it's harsh climate. The mountains of the south have staved off attacks from [[Turul]] and [[Oceans|the Boiling Depths]] have prevented any assaults by sea from [[Grudor]]. Was given the first medical techniques as well as the scientific method. The southern wetlands and temperate forests are bountiful with medicinal herbs. It trades with [[Calythra]] which in turn gives these herbs to the Freepier autonomous zone. Both [[Grudor]] and [[Turul]] having learned of these techniques now want them but [[Calythra]] won't allow it. It's a very intellectual nation that values it's freedom and logical ways greatly.
 
Dominion of [[Vitos]] - Capital Oxmeadow - A farming state given the first farming techniques and has the most fertile land on [[Acora]]. This is why it was able to resist being conquered because they couldn't risk a war damaging the land. Instead they have a trade agreement with [[Turul]]. The temperature allows for year round farming. They were also given animal husnandry techniques for livestock.

Dominion of [[Waymarch]] - Capital Skytrail - They invented the wheel so their continent is the only one that has the wheel. [[Turul]] has worked very hard to keep it out of [[Grudor]]'s hands. [[Waymarch]] is very secretive about how to make these carts. They change up the design frequently to prevent copying and reverse engineering. Other countries MUST use [[Waymarch]] caravans to transport their goods and the roads they build are toll roads. Only [[Turul]] is allowed to use the roads for free and know their secrets. But they still try and keep much of their secrets under wraps if they can. Waymarchian caravans do all the supply to all of Agoris including boat supply. But their boats are small and unable to carry much supplies. They want to get some of [[Magnarch]]'s secrets so they can expand their consumer base. They also were trained in animal husbandry of goats and horses. Their ability to climb mountains was due to decades of breeding pack mountain goats which are very strong and beefy versions of mountain goats that can still scale mountains at very steep angles. They're trying to tame giant eagles now to have flying carts. They also have the only tamed horses in [[Acora]] that are very fast. They've bred warhorses as well that are beefy with high constitution. Others are allowed to own them, but they're not allowed to be bred. [[Pyril]] uses sleds to get their ore out of mines. [[Vitos]] uses sled ploughs except those that buy a [[Waymarch]] plow. Though you have to agree to surprise inspections of your farm in order to own one. If they find a reproduced cart they'll take away the one you own, burn the one you made and fine you.. Parmont is the southern region bordering the Archonate and is loyal to the Archon. Northern [[Waymarch]] has an autonomous region called Freepier which is protected by [[Calythra]] and in return provides fish and a modest navy to the kingdom. They're the ones supplying [[Calythra]] with their new inventions as well as the plans to make them.