[[Grudor]] Empire - Capital Wolfgarde - Was given the first advanced battle tactics and weapons like the bow and catapult. Have become a super power since by conquering all neighbouring land. It's the largest nation on the planet due to the sheet number of land it's conquered. It lays claim to all of the continent with [[Pyril]] and [[Magnarch]] under its protection and control despite technically being sovereign nations. The culture is based on strength and loyalty to the empire. 

[[Magnarch]] Protectorate - Capital Basincliff - Given the first nautical knowledge and has the strongest navy on [[Acora]]. They don't have the means of fully utilizing this navy however without the battle tactics of [[Grudor]] so they kept some sovereignty and became a protectorate of [[Grudor]] while supplying them a navy. They also were given fishing techniques so their major export is fish. Their ships are the only ones capable of sailing between continents.

Protectorate of [[Pyril]] - Capital Cragcoast - A protectorate under the control of the [[Grudor]] empire. Managed to maintain it's soverignty by supplying [[Grudor]] with needed ore. They were the first ones taught mining techniques and advanced smelting and foraging. They have the highest quality and most advanced metals on the planet with their advanced alloying techniques.  They're the only ones with proper steel alloying so they can produce full plate and the sharpest blades. They export these weapons and armour across Valdor and every blacksmith worth their salt studied in [[Pyril]]. Wraekai is in the iron age with just heated metal hammered into shape on an anvil. Weapons aren't as sharp, bend more easily and are blunted more quickly. They're poor against the steel armour of Valdor. The armour Valdor has is thin and a combination of scalemail, chainmail and splint for the best soldiers while the rest have leather or fur armour. Metal armours typically only cover the chest and parts of the head. More important soldiers have shirts and arm covers with armour that covers more of the face. 