Bruqai Bestowments make technology in [[Acora]] highly variable from place to place. This clears up what is avaialble and what isn't depending on the location.

### Transportation
#### The Wheel
Valdor has not yet invented the wheel. They rely on their knowledge of wild animal taming for transport. They also make more use of ships due to the extensive river systems in Valdor and large coastline. For ground travel they'll use the large and powerful pack animals they tamed which are more useful in the swampy and mountainous terrain much of inner Valdor suffers from. Logs and pulleys are used to haul mining spoils up mines and to harbours.

Despite [[Waymarch]]'s efforts, [[Deslea#Transportation and Communication|Deslea]] has successfully managed to replicate the wheel. [[Calythra]] was also given its design from Freepier so the wheel is common throughout Wraekai. [[Vitos#Transportation and Communication|Vitos]] doesn't have their own wheels though because of the hold the [[Waymarch#Gearforged Tribunal|Gearforged Tribunal]] has on the Archonate. [[Vitos]] is heavily patrolled by the Tribunal with random checks being given to those who are renting wheeled plows to make sure their work hasn't been copied. Those who do copy their work are barred from ever renting any of it again and have the original taking and the copy burned. The Tribunal then ransacks their house for any copies of blueprints or drafts. The hold [[Waymarch]] has on transportation as made them the most wealthy nation on the continent and they don't plan on letting that go anytime soon.

#### Roads
The roads of the Archonate are the best maintained ones there are on the continent. [[Deslea]] and [[Calythra]] both predominantly have dirt roads with [[Calythra]] having some more gravel roads than [[Deslea]]. Causeways aren't a thing and bridges are only common in [[Calythra]]. [[Deslea]] has commissioned [[Waymarch]] to make causeways in their southern swamps, but [[Waymarch]] doesn't trust [[Deslea]] after they stole their wheel so no longer give them anything they don't have full control over.

#### Postal Services
[[Deslea]]'s postal service is currently very rudimentary and takes a long time to actually transport much because of the harsh terrain and unviability of the transport they do have. This leads to academics frequently hiring the services of the [[Waymarch]] postal service who have superior technology capable of traversing the harsh terrain of [[Deslea]] without improving their roads. They have modular carts where the wheels can be removed and replaced by skis to traverse the snow or taken off entirely and serve as a floating skid in the swamp areas of Southern [[Deslea]]. This is much faster and thus far me frequently used than their postal service.